source/php/classes/i18n.rst, before:


.. _php/classes/i18n:

I18n
####

.. php:namespace:: Nos

.. php:class:: I18n

	Provides the translation related functions.


::setLocale()
-------------

.. php:staticmethod:: setLocale($locale)

	Configure the locale to use for translations.

	:param string $locale: A valid locale (``en``, ``en_GB``, ``en_GB.utf-8`` and ``en_GB.utf-8@variant`` are all valid).


::restoreLocale()
-----------------

.. php:staticmethod:: restoreLocale()

	Restores the previous locale.


::load()
--------

.. php:staticmethod:: load($file)

    Loads a dictionary for the current locale.

    :param string $file: Dictionary path.
    :param string $group: Group name. Default ``null``, use ``$file``.


::get()
-------

.. php:staticmethod:: get($message, $default = null)

	Retrieves a translation from the last loaded dictionary.

	:param string $message: The message to translate.
	:param string $default: The default text to return when the message is not found. Default value is the message itself.
	:returns: The translation or ``null`` if not founded


::gget()
--------

.. php:staticmethod:: gget($file, $message, $default = null)

    Retrieves a translation from a specific dictionary.

    :param string $file: Which dictionary to look into.
    :param string $message: The message to translate.
    :param string $default: The default text to return when the message is not found. Default value is the message itself.
    :returns: The translation or ``null`` if not founded

.. warning:: The dictionary must have been loaded manually before.

::current_dictionary()
----------------------

.. php:staticmethod:: current_dictionary($list)

    Set the current dictionary

    :param string|array $list: A dictionary file or list of dictionaries.


::dictionary()
--------------

.. php:staticmethod:: dictionary($files)

    Returns a closure that translate messages from a specific dictionary.

    :param string|array $files: A dictionary file or list of dictionaries.
    :returns: A callable to translate a message

.. code-block:: php

        <?php

        // Retrieves an anonymous function
        $dictionary = Nos\I18n::dictionary('mon_appli::common');

        echo $dictionary('Translate this');

::addPriorityDictionary()
-------------------------

.. php:staticmethod:: addPriorityDictionary($locale, $dictionary)

    Add a priority dictionary for a locale

    :param string $locale: A valid locale
    :param string $dictionary: Dictionary path

::addPriorityMessages()
-------------------------

.. php:staticmethod:: addPriorityMessages($locale, $messages)

    Add some priorities translations for a locale

    :param string $locale: A valid locale
    :param array $messages: An array of translations

Commit message:

Add i18n functions and plural fonctionnality in i18n class

source/php/classes/i18n.rst, after:


.. _php/classes/i18n:

I18n
####

.. php:namespace:: Nos

.. php:class:: I18n

	Provides the translation related functions.


::setLocale()
-------------

.. php:staticmethod:: setLocale($locale)

	Configure the locale to use for translations.

	:param string $locale: A valid locale (``en``, ``en_GB``, ``en_GB.utf-8`` and ``en_GB.utf-8@variant`` are all valid).


::restoreLocale()
-----------------

.. php:staticmethod:: restoreLocale()

	Restores the previous locale.


::load()
--------

.. php:staticmethod:: load($file)

    Loads a dictionary for the current locale.

    :param string $file: Dictionary path.
    :param string $group: Group name. Default ``null``, use ``$file``.


::get()
-------

.. php:staticmethod:: get($message, $default = null)

	Retrieves a translation from the last loaded dictionary.

	:param string $message: The message to translate.
	:param string $default: The default text to return when the message is not found. Default value is the message itself.
	:returns: The translation or ``null`` if not founded


::gget()
--------

.. php:staticmethod:: gget($file, $message, $default = null)

    Retrieves a translation from a specific dictionary.

    :param string $file: Which dictionary to look into.
    :param string $message: The message to translate.
    :param string $default: The default text to return when the message is not found. Default value is the message itself.
    :returns: The translation or ``null`` if not founded

.. warning:: The dictionary must have been loaded manually before.

::nget()
--------

.. php:staticmethod:: nget($singular, $plural, $n)

    The plural version of :php:meth:`I18n::get`. Some languages have more than one form for plural messages dependent on the count.

    :param string $singular: The singular form of the string to be converted. Used as the key for the search in the dictionary
    :param string $plural: The plural form
    :param string $n: Used to determine which plural form to used depending locale.
    :returns: The translation or, if not founded, $singular is returned if n == 1, otherwise $plural

::ngget()
---------

.. php:staticmethod:: gget($group, $singular, $plural, $n)

    Retrieves a plural translation from a specific dictionary.

    :param string $group: Which dictionary to look into.
    :param string $singular: The singular form of the string to be converted. Used as the key for the search in the dictionary
    :param string $plural: The plural form
    :param string $n: Used to determine which plural form to used depending locale.
    :returns: The translation or, if not founded, $singular is returned if n == 1, otherwise $plural

.. warning:: The dictionary must have been loaded manually before.

::current_dictionary()
----------------------

.. php:staticmethod:: current_dictionary($list)

    Set the current dictionary

    :param string|array $list: A dictionary file or list of dictionaries.


::dictionary()
--------------

.. php:staticmethod:: dictionary($files)

    Returns a closure that translate messages from a specific dictionary.

    :param string|array $files: A dictionary file or list of dictionaries.
    :returns: A callable to translate a message

.. code-block:: php

        <?php

        // Retrieves an anonymous function
        $dictionary = Nos\I18n::dictionary('mon_appli::common');

        echo $dictionary('Translate this');

::addPriorityDictionary()
-------------------------

.. php:staticmethod:: addPriorityDictionary($locale, $dictionary)

    Add a priority dictionary for a locale

    :param string $locale: A valid locale
    :param string $dictionary: Dictionary path

::addPriorityMessages()
-------------------------

.. php:staticmethod:: addPriorityMessages($locale, $messages)

    Add some priorities translations for a locale

    :param string $locale: A valid locale
    :param array $messages: An array of translations
