source/php/models/model_page.rst, before:

Model_Page
##########

.. php:namespace:: Nos\Page

.. php:class:: Model_Page

	Extends :php:class:`Nos\\Orm\\Model`.

Constants
*********

Page types
==========

.. php:const:: TYPE_CLASSIC
.. php:const:: TYPE_EXTERNAL_LINK

Possible values of the ``page_type`` column.

External target types
=====================

.. php:const:: EXTERNAL_TARGET_NEW
.. php:const:: EXTERNAL_TARGET_SAME

Possible values of the ``page_external_link_type`` column.

Lock types
==========

.. php:const:: LOCK_UNLOCKED
.. php:const:: LOCK_DELETION

Possible values of the ``page_lock`` column.

Relations
*********

.. php:attr:: children

	* Relation type: :term:`has_many`.
	* Model: :php:class:`Model_Page`


.. php:attr:: parent

	* Relation type: :term:`belongs_to`.
	* Model: :php:class:`Model_Page`

Behaviours
**********

* :php:class:`Twinnable <Nos\\Orm_Behaviour_Twinnable>`
* :php:class:`Tree <Nos\\Orm_Behaviour_Tree>`
* :php:class:`Virtual path <Nos\\Orm_Behaviour_Virtualpath>`
* :php:class:`Sortable <Nos\\Orm_Behaviour_Sortable>`
* :php:class:`Publishable <Nos\\Orm_Behaviour_Publishable>`

Methods
*******

.. php:staticmethod:: link()

	:returns: ``string`` The href and target attributes for an HTML link, such as ``href="..." target="..."``.

.. php:staticmethod:: url($params = array())

	:param array $params:

		:preview: If set, returns a preview URL

	:returns: The absolute URL of the page

Commit message:

New htmlAnchor methods on Attachment, Model_Page, Model_Media and Behaviour_Urlenhancer

source/php/models/model_page.rst, after:

Model_Page
##########

.. php:namespace:: Nos\Page

.. php:class:: Model_Page

	Extends :php:class:`Nos\\Orm\\Model`.

Constants
*********

Page types
==========

.. php:const:: TYPE_CLASSIC
.. php:const:: TYPE_EXTERNAL_LINK

Possible values of the ``page_type`` column.

External target types
=====================

.. php:const:: EXTERNAL_TARGET_NEW
.. php:const:: EXTERNAL_TARGET_SAME

Possible values of the ``page_external_link_type`` column.

Lock types
==========

.. php:const:: LOCK_UNLOCKED
.. php:const:: LOCK_DELETION

Possible values of the ``page_lock`` column.

Relations
*********

.. php:attr:: children

	* Relation type: :term:`has_many`.
	* Model: :php:class:`Model_Page`


.. php:attr:: parent

	* Relation type: :term:`belongs_to`.
	* Model: :php:class:`Model_Page`

Behaviours
**********

* :php:class:`Twinnable <Nos\\Orm_Behaviour_Twinnable>`
* :php:class:`Tree <Nos\\Orm_Behaviour_Tree>`
* :php:class:`Virtual path <Nos\\Orm_Behaviour_Virtualpath>`
* :php:class:`Sortable <Nos\\Orm_Behaviour_Sortable>`
* :php:class:`Publishable <Nos\\Orm_Behaviour_Publishable>`

Methods
*******

.. php:method:: htmlAnchor($attributes = array())

    :param array $attributes:
        | Array of attributes to be applied to the anchor tag.
        | If key 'href' is set in $attributes parameter:

        * if is a string, used for href attribute
        * if is an array, used as argument of ->url() method

        If key 'text' is set in $attributes parameter, its value replace page title
    :returns: Returns an HTML anchor tag with, by default, page URL in href and page title in text.

.. php:method:: url($params = array())

	:param array $params:

		:preview: If set, returns a preview URL

	:returns: The absolute URL of the page
