source/php/configuration/application/metadata.rst, before:

Metadata
########

The :file:`metadata.config.php` file is how an application is defined. It tells what contains the application and what
it does.

The most important keys are:

:name: The name of the application.
:namespace: In which PHP namespace all the classes of the application must be defined.
:icons: In the 3 standard sizes 16*16, 32*32 and 64*64.

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    return array(
        'name'      => 'Webpages',
        'namespace' => 'Nos\Page',
        'version'   => '0.2',
        'provider'  => array(
            'name'  => 'Novius OS',
        ),
        'icons' => array(
            64 => 'static/apps/noviusos_page/img/64/page.png',
            32 => 'static/apps/noviusos_page/img/32/page.png',
            16 => 'static/apps/noviusos_page/img/16/page.png',
        ),
        'permission' => array(
            // Empty array for now. Leave it.
        ),
        'i18n_file' => 'noviusos_page::metadata',
        'launchers' => array(
            // Optional
        ),
        'enhancers' => array(
            // Optional
        ),
        'templates' => array(
            // Optional
        ),
        'data_catchers' => array(
            // Optional
        ),
    );

An application provides:


.. _php/configuration/metadata/launchers:

Launchers
=========

A :term:`launcher <Launcher>` is an icon on the home tab.

A launcher is defined by an associative array. Key is launcher ID, launcher properties is an associative array :

:name: Text to display for the icon.
:icon: Optional. URL to a 64*64 image, default will use the 64*64 icon of the app.
:action: What is done when clicking on the launcher. See :ref:`php/configuration/application/nosActions`.

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    return array(
        'launchers' => array(
            'noviusos_page' => array(
                'name' => 'Webpages',
                // 'icon' is not set, so the default icon will be used
                'action' => array(
                    // open a tab
                    'action' => 'nosTabs',
                    'tab' => array(
                        'url' => 'admin/noviusos_page/appdesk/index',
                        // 'iconUrl' is not set, so the default icon will be used
                    ),
                ),
            ),
        ),
    );


.. _metadata/enhancers:

Enhancers
=========

:term:`Enhancers <Enhancer>` are used in WYSIWYG editors. They provide functionalities for the front-office.

For example, the ‘Forms’ application allows users to insert forms in their web pages (using an enhancer).

:term:`URL enhancers <URL Enhancer>`, a specific type of enhancers, handle their own URLs. For example, every blog post
has an URL.


.. image:: images/metadata_enhancer.png
	:alt: The ‘Form’ enhancer
	:align: center

An enhancer is defined with:

:title:       Title of the enhancer displayed when opening the ‘Application’ menu from the wysiwyg.
:desc:        Optional. Description of the enhancer.
:iconUrl:     Optional. URL to a 16*16 icon, displayed when opening the ‘Application’ menu from the wysiwyg, default
  		      will use the 16*16 icon of the app ;
:enhancer:    URL of the front-office controller used to render the enhancer.
:urlEnhancer: Same that ``enhancer``.Only one of the two keys can is used, depending if you want an URL enhancer or
              just a plain regular enhancer.
:previewUrl:  Optional. URL of the controller used to render the preview in the wysiwyg.
:dialog:      Optional. If you want a configuration popup, URL of the controller used to display and save the
  		      enhancer configuration. See :js:func:`$container.nosDialog` for the list of parameters.


.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    return array(
        'noviusos_form' => array(
            'title' => 'Form',
            'desc'  => '',
            // Here it's just a regular enhancer
            'enhancer' => 'noviusos_form/front/main',
            //'urlEnhancer' => 'noviusos_form/front/main',
            'iconUrl' => 'static/apps/noviusos_form/img/icons/form-16.png',
            // We'll use our controller to generate the preview
            'previewUrl' => 'admin/noviusos_form/enhancer/preview',
            // And the user has to configure it
            'dialog' => array(
                'contentUrl' => 'admin/noviusos_form/enhancer/popup',
                'width' => 450,
                'height' => 400,
                'ajax' => true,
            ),
        ),
    );



.. _metadata/templates:

Templates
=========

:term:`Templates <Template>` are similar to other CMS' templates or themes. They provide a layout for the front-office.

In Novius OS, a template contains one or more WYSIWYG editable area(s), which are is placed inside a grid.

The grid has a size of ``cols`` * ``rows``, and each editable area is positioned using absolute coordinates (it's similar
to ``position: absolute`` in CSS).

Each WYSIWYG editable area has:

- a **name**: it's the key in the ``layout`` array (see below) ;
- a **position**: absolute coordinates inside the grid (similar to ``left`` and ``top`` in CSS) ;
- a **size**: similar to ``width`` and ``height`` in CSS.

In the end, a template is defined with:

:file:    path to the template file (it's a view)
:title:   title of the template, it's shown when selecting a template for a page
:cols:    grid width (in units)
:rows:    grid height (in units)
:layout:  list of the WYSIWYG editors inside the grid :

    - the key is the name of the WYSIWYG ;
    - the value is a comma-separated string containing (in this order) :

        - the left position (0-indexed) ;
        - the top position (0-indexed) ;
        - the width (in units) ;
        - the height (in units).


Here's an example:

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    return array(
        'templates' => array(
            'top_menu' => array(
                'file' => 'noviusos_templates_basic::top_menu',
                'title' => 'Default template with a top menu',
                'cols' => 1,
                'rows' => 1,
                'layout' => array(
                    // There is one WYSIWYG named 'content'
                    // Position inside the grid: <left>,<top>,<width>,<height>
                    'content' => '0,0,1,1',
                ),
            ),
        ),
    );



.. _php/configuration/metadata/data_catchers:

Data catchers
=============

.. todo::
    Voir comment faire pour cette section

Commit message:

added requires and extends key

source/php/configuration/application/metadata.rst, after:

Metadata
########

The :file:`metadata.config.php` file is how an application is defined. It tells what contains the application and what
it does.

The most important keys are:

:name: The name of the application.
:namespace: In which PHP namespace all the classes of the application must be defined.
:icons: In the 3 standard sizes 16*16, 32*32 and 64*64.
:extends: Which application does your application extends.
:requires: Which applications does your application requires. Array or string (in the last case, considered as an array
    with a unique element).

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    return array(
        'name'      => 'Webpages',
        'namespace' => 'Nos\Page',
        'version'   => '0.2',
        'provider'  => array(
            'name'  => 'Novius OS',
        ),
        'extends' => '' // Optional,
        'requires' => array(
            // Optional
        )
        'icons' => array(
            64 => 'static/apps/noviusos_page/img/64/page.png',
            32 => 'static/apps/noviusos_page/img/32/page.png',
            16 => 'static/apps/noviusos_page/img/16/page.png',
        ),
        'permission' => array(
            // Empty array for now. Leave it.
        ),
        'i18n_file' => 'noviusos_page::metadata',
        'launchers' => array(
            // Optional
        ),
        'enhancers' => array(
            // Optional
        ),
        'templates' => array(
            // Optional
        ),
        'data_catchers' => array(
            // Optional
        ),
    );

An application provides:


.. _php/configuration/metadata/launchers:

Launchers
=========

A :term:`launcher <Launcher>` is an icon on the home tab.

A launcher is defined by an associative array. Key is launcher ID, launcher properties is an associative array :

:name: Text to display for the icon.
:icon: Optional. URL to a 64*64 image, default will use the 64*64 icon of the app.
:action: What is done when clicking on the launcher. See :ref:`php/configuration/application/nosActions`.

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    return array(
        'launchers' => array(
            'noviusos_page' => array(
                'name' => 'Webpages',
                // 'icon' is not set, so the default icon will be used
                'action' => array(
                    // open a tab
                    'action' => 'nosTabs',
                    'tab' => array(
                        'url' => 'admin/noviusos_page/appdesk/index',
                        // 'iconUrl' is not set, so the default icon will be used
                    ),
                ),
            ),
        ),
    );


.. _metadata/enhancers:

Enhancers
=========

:term:`Enhancers <Enhancer>` are used in WYSIWYG editors. They provide functionalities for the front-office.

For example, the ‘Forms’ application allows users to insert forms in their web pages (using an enhancer).

:term:`URL enhancers <URL Enhancer>`, a specific type of enhancers, handle their own URLs. For example, every blog post
has an URL.


.. image:: images/metadata_enhancer.png
	:alt: The ‘Form’ enhancer
	:align: center

An enhancer is defined with:

:title:       Title of the enhancer displayed when opening the ‘Application’ menu from the wysiwyg.
:desc:        Optional. Description of the enhancer.
:iconUrl:     Optional. URL to a 16*16 icon, displayed when opening the ‘Application’ menu from the wysiwyg, default
  		      will use the 16*16 icon of the app ;
:enhancer:    URL of the front-office controller used to render the enhancer.
:urlEnhancer: Same that ``enhancer``.Only one of the two keys can is used, depending if you want an URL enhancer or
              just a plain regular enhancer.
:previewUrl:  Optional. URL of the controller used to render the preview in the wysiwyg.
:dialog:      Optional. If you want a configuration popup, URL of the controller used to display and save the
  		      enhancer configuration. See :js:func:`$container.nosDialog` for the list of parameters.


.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    return array(
        'noviusos_form' => array(
            'title' => 'Form',
            'desc'  => '',
            // Here it's just a regular enhancer
            'enhancer' => 'noviusos_form/front/main',
            //'urlEnhancer' => 'noviusos_form/front/main',
            'iconUrl' => 'static/apps/noviusos_form/img/icons/form-16.png',
            // We'll use our controller to generate the preview
            'previewUrl' => 'admin/noviusos_form/enhancer/preview',
            // And the user has to configure it
            'dialog' => array(
                'contentUrl' => 'admin/noviusos_form/enhancer/popup',
                'width' => 450,
                'height' => 400,
                'ajax' => true,
            ),
        ),
    );



.. _metadata/templates:

Templates
=========

:term:`Templates <Template>` are similar to other CMS' templates or themes. They provide a layout for the front-office.

In Novius OS, a template contains one or more WYSIWYG editable area(s), which are is placed inside a grid.

The grid has a size of ``cols`` * ``rows``, and each editable area is positioned using absolute coordinates (it's similar
to ``position: absolute`` in CSS).

Each WYSIWYG editable area has:

- a **name**: it's the key in the ``layout`` array (see below) ;
- a **position**: absolute coordinates inside the grid (similar to ``left`` and ``top`` in CSS) ;
- a **size**: similar to ``width`` and ``height`` in CSS.

In the end, a template is defined with:

:file:    path to the template file (it's a view)
:title:   title of the template, it's shown when selecting a template for a page
:cols:    grid width (in units)
:rows:    grid height (in units)
:layout:  list of the WYSIWYG editors inside the grid :

    - the key is the name of the WYSIWYG ;
    - the value is a comma-separated string containing (in this order) :

        - the left position (0-indexed) ;
        - the top position (0-indexed) ;
        - the width (in units) ;
        - the height (in units).


Here's an example:

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    return array(
        'templates' => array(
            'top_menu' => array(
                'file' => 'noviusos_templates_basic::top_menu',
                'title' => 'Default template with a top menu',
                'cols' => 1,
                'rows' => 1,
                'layout' => array(
                    // There is one WYSIWYG named 'content'
                    // Position inside the grid: <left>,<top>,<width>,<height>
                    'content' => '0,0,1,1',
                ),
            ),
        ),
    );



.. _php/configuration/metadata/data_catchers:

Data catchers
=============

.. todo::
    Voir comment faire pour cette section
