source/php/fuelphp/extended_classes.rst, before:

Extended Classes
################

We `extended some classes from FuelPHP <http://fuelphp.com/docs/general/extending_core.html>`__. The additions we
made are listed in this page.


.. contents::
    :depth: 2
    :local:

Core Classes
============

Arr
----

Added the static **recursive_filter**\($array, $callback) method.

Autoloader
----------

- Filename suffixes are available for *model*, *controller*, and *view*, as follow: **model.model.php**,
  **controller.ctrl.php**, **view.view.php**.
  For instance, if you have a ``Controller_Admin_Page`` controller, its filename can either be
  ``classes/controller/admin/page.php`` or ``classes/controller/admin/page.ctrl.php``.
- It is possible to add new class aliases and access existing aliases using the **addClassAlias** and
  **getClassAliases** functions.
- The **generateSuffixedNamespace** function allow to generate a customized namespace for files such as tasks or
  migrations

Cache_Storage_File
------------------

**__construct()** will try to create the specified cache directory when it doesn't exists.

Config
------

Added `events to alter the loaded configuration <events_configuration>`__.


Date
----

- Added the static method **compare**\($date1, $date2)
- Added the instance method **modify**\($modify)

Email_Driver
------------

**send()**: we added :ref:`two events <php/events/email>` ``email.before_send`` and ``email.after_send``

Event_Instance
--------------

Added two methods **register_function()** and **trigger_function()** to deal with by-reference arguments.


Fieldset and Fieldset_Field
---------------------------

- Added the static method **Fieldset::build_from_config()**
- Added the public method **$fieldset->getInstance()**: it gets the current model instance processed by the fieldset
- Integration of :doc:`renderers </php/renderers/index>` in the methods of these two classes

File
----

Added the method **relativeSymlink()**


Finder
------

- Added the Novius OS framework path in the searched paths
- Allow for filename suffixes for *config*, *views* and *lang* files (same rule as the ``Autoloader``, see above)


Image
-----

Added the static method **shrink**\($max_width, $max_height = null, $keepar = true, $pad = false)


Log
---

- Added the static method **Log::deprecated**\($message, $since)
- Added the static method **Log::exception**\($e, $prefix)

Module
------

Allow for a custom namespace retrieved from the config when loading a module (used in our applications).


Response
--------

Added the static method **json()** to return JSON data


Security
--------

Added the method **htmlspecialchars()**


Session
-------

Added the static method **user()** to retrieve the current logged in user in the back-office.


Str
----

Added the static methods **textToHtml**\($text)


View
----

Added the static method **redirect**\($from, $to, $callback)


ORM Package
===========

Model
-----

- Added a cache for ``Model::$_properties``
- Added :ref:`behaviours <php/behaviours>`
- Added somes :doc:`relations  </php/relations/index>`

Query
-----

Added getters for ``alias``, ``connection`` and ``model``.

Commit message:

Add before_where and before_order_by on Query

source/php/fuelphp/extended_classes.rst, after:

Extended Classes
################

We `extended some classes from FuelPHP <http://fuelphp.com/docs/general/extending_core.html>`__. The additions we
made are listed in this page.


.. contents::
    :depth: 2
    :local:

Core Classes
============

Arr
----

Added the static **recursive_filter**\($array, $callback) method.

Autoloader
----------

- Filename suffixes are available for *model*, *controller*, and *view*, as follow: **model.model.php**,
  **controller.ctrl.php**, **view.view.php**.
  For instance, if you have a ``Controller_Admin_Page`` controller, its filename can either be
  ``classes/controller/admin/page.php`` or ``classes/controller/admin/page.ctrl.php``.
- It is possible to add new class aliases and access existing aliases using the **addClassAlias** and
  **getClassAliases** functions.
- The **generateSuffixedNamespace** function allow to generate a customized namespace for files such as tasks or
  migrations

Cache_Storage_File
------------------

**__construct()** will try to create the specified cache directory when it doesn't exists.

Config
------

Added `events to alter the loaded configuration <events_configuration>`__.


Date
----

- Added the static method **compare**\($date1, $date2)
- Added the instance method **modify**\($modify)

Email_Driver
------------

**send()**: we added :ref:`two events <php/events/email>` ``email.before_send`` and ``email.after_send``

Event_Instance
--------------

Added two methods **register_function()** and **trigger_function()** to deal with by-reference arguments.


Fieldset and Fieldset_Field
---------------------------

- Added the static method **Fieldset::build_from_config()**
- Added the public method **$fieldset->getInstance()**: it gets the current model instance processed by the fieldset
- Integration of :doc:`renderers </php/renderers/index>` in the methods of these two classes

File
----

Added the method **relativeSymlink()**


Finder
------

- Added the Novius OS framework path in the searched paths
- Allow for filename suffixes for *config*, *views* and *lang* files (same rule as the ``Autoloader``, see above)


Image
-----

Added the static method **shrink**\($max_width, $max_height = null, $keepar = true, $pad = false)


Log
---

- Added the static method **Log::deprecated**\($message, $since)
- Added the static method **Log::exception**\($e, $prefix)

Module
------

Allow for a custom namespace retrieved from the config when loading a module (used in our applications).


Response
--------

Added the static method **json()** to return JSON data


Security
--------

Added the method **htmlspecialchars()**


Session
-------

Added the static method **user()** to retrieve the current logged in user in the back-office.


Str
----

Added the static methods **textToHtml**\($text)


View
----

Added the static method **redirect**\($from, $to, $callback)


ORM Package
===========

Model
-----

* Added a cache for ``Model::$_properties``
* Added :ref:`behaviours <php/behaviours>`
* Added somes :doc:`relations  </php/relations/index>`
* Added two options in build options:

    :before_where:
        | An ``array``, ``search_column`` => ``$replace``, where ``$replace`` can be a string or a ``closure`` which takes the ``$condition`` array by parameter
        | If ``$replace`` return null, the ``$condition`` will be remove from the ``where`` options

    :before_order_by:
        | An ``array``, ``search_column`` => ``$replace``, where ``$replace`` can be a string or a ``closure`` which takes the entry column by parameter
        | If ``$replace`` return null, the column will be remove from the ``order_by`` options

Query
-----

Added getters for ``alias``, ``connection`` and ``model``.
